---
title: "how to  Setup a Simple Personal Website"
---
So basically this was an intresting task for me. though i got confused at some point it was really fun to do this task. and i learnes lots of things.

So I followed this steps:

1) Fork the github/personal-website repo.


2) Install a full [Ruby development environment](https://jekyllrb.com/docs/installation/)




3) Install Jekyll and [bundler gems](https://jekyllrb.com/docs/ruby-101/#bundler)



4) gem install jekyll bundler



5) cd personal-website



6) bundle install



7) bundle exec jekyll serve


then you will see something like this:

Configuration file: /octocat/personal-website/_config.yml
            Source: /octocat/personal-website
       Destination: /octocat/_site
 Incremental build: disabled. Enable with --incremental
      Generating...
   GitHub Metadata: No GitHub API authentication could be found. Some fields may be missing or have incorrect data.
                    done in 14.729 seconds.
 Auto-regeneration: enabled for '/octocat/personal-website'
    Server address: http://127.0.0.1:4000
  Server running... press ctrl-c to stop.
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
8) now browse to [http://localhost:4000](http://localhost:4000)



tadaa!your website is ready...
now to coustomize this you can goto _config.Yml file and make the changes you want. I added my instagram handle and hackerrank handle . I also added the repos which i forked in my project section.
and every time i made the changes i used to shut down the server and restart the server by using         bundle exec jekyll serve



I first changed the layout from sidebar to stacked. then changed the theme from light to dark,
then i added my repos i delted the excluded parameters so that i will get all my repo and i gave the limit to 9.

then i added my social media handles in the social media directory line.
then i created new .md file for blog inside the post directory and also created a .md file inside the personal website folder for the resume.





